Alrighty, so let's go ahead
and move into our IDE
and we'll add a new test method here.
And this is for the, is student null check.
Check if student is null and I pass in a given ID.
So in this case, I'll pass in the ID of one.
Now notice here, we don't have this method,
so we actually have to create this method in our service.
So I'll swing over to my student in grade service,
stretch out a bit here at the bottom,
and I'll create that method.
In this given method they'll pass
in a parameter for the ID.
Then I'll set up an optional for the college student
and I have student=studentdao.findbyID.
So I'll retrieve that given item from the database.
And if the student is present, then I'll return true.
If not present, then I simply return false.
All right, so we have this method in place,
so now our tests should be in better shape now,
and great, so that red moves away
and this method here is available.
All right, I like it.
Now, let's also do an assert false
and let's perform a check for the ID of zero.
And the first line will return true
if ID one exists in the database
and for the second line will return false
if ID zero does not exist in the database.
Okay, great.
Let's go ahead and run this test
and see what the results are.
And the test failed.
It failed as there's no data in the database.
All right,
so when we tried to see if ID one
existed in the database, that, that failed
and because we haven't really inserted any data
in our database, really.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
So let's go ahead and write some code
to insert sample data
so we can make use of that before each annotation.
And we'll simply add code here to insert sample data.
Now, in order to insert data into the database,
we can make use of that JDBC template
that we learned about earlier.
So let me just go ahead and auto wire in that JDBC template.
And remember this JDBC template is a helper class
provided by the spring framework
that will allow us to execute JDBC operations.
All righty.
So I have my JDBC template auto wired,
now I can use it.
I can say JDBC.execute, and I can pass in an SQL string.
And then I also specify the values.
I'll insert a student with the ID of one
and the student's name is Eric Roby,
along with their email address.
Great, so this looks really good.
So before each one of the tests are executed
we'll do an insert here for this data.
All right, so this returns true
since ID one exists in the database.
That's good, excellent.
And then here returns false
since ID zero does not exist in the database.
Excellent, so this is really good,
I like the way this part is set up for us.
Now, another thing I'd like to do
is add one more piece of code here
for deleting the sample data
or doing some cleanup on the actual database.
So here I'll say JDBC execute
and I pass in the SQL string
and I'll actually delete the sample data.
So delete from student.
Now we can go ahead and run our tests
and check the results.
And excellent.
So both of those tests passed and were a-okay.
Good Job!